So let's look at the current state of affairs in AI for medical imaging.
So you have no shortage of conflicting messages about the need in radiologists right now.
On one hand, you have messages about a shortage of doctors across nations and
about how radiologists are pressed to read
even more images and have even less time to do that.
On another hand, you have a world renowned computer experts saying that we should stop
training radiologists because AI systems will be better anyway.
One thing is certain, that the amount of 3D images and overall medical images is growing,
amount of procedures is growing,
the technology is becoming more accessible,
and we are facing the aging population.
It is clear that hospital systems will value any types of technology that will allow them
to be more efficient and will allow them to be more precise
in bringing diagnostic and medical technology to the patients.
Let's look at it from the business side of things.
So in the charts to the right here,
you see the FDA approvals of AI algorithms over the past several years.
FDA is the regulatory agency that regulates in
the US the technology that is being brought to the market and sold to hospitals.
There has been increasing flow in startups and
various other companies pushing their products through this market.
You can see how radiology takes a sizable chunk in
all the types of algorithms that are being developed.
Overall funding for health care startups in 2018 alone,
it hit about 26 billion.
This is looking across all the fields including Pharma and
including more established startups which are not even using AI.
Specifically, radiological AI startups,
they hit about half a billion dollar in funding
total in 2018 and this number keeps growing.
Who is interested in all of these technologies?
Who are the people who would be hiring experts in medical image analysis?
So there's several different environments that you're going
to see these applications being integrated.
In one scenario, there are large hospital systems and
academic centers that are on the forefront of cutting
edge research and will want to see how AI can fuel new research possibilities.
There are startups who may be focusing on
one or two disease state that have a really high impact.
Of course, there are larger companies that are
already embedded in the day-to-day workflow clinically,
who want to use AI to increase their current softwares efficiency,
accuracy, and possibly, unlock new possibilities.
We can see from this graphic here that this spans all of radiology subspecialties.